Docs for Teams monitoring and alerting capabilities (#6821)
MicrosoftDocs/OfficeDocs-SkypeForBusiness: Teams/teams-alerts/device-health-status.md

---

> title: Microsoft Teams Devices Monitoring and Alerting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Microsoft Teams devices monitoring and alerting
```

author: cichur
ms.author: v-cichur
manager: serdars
audience: Admin
ms.topic: article
ms.service: msteams
ms.reviewer: vapati
f1.keywords:
- 
localization_priority: 
search.appverid: 
ms.collection: 
  - 

> description: Learn how to use the Teams monitoring and alerting capabilities in the Microsoft Teams admin center to pro-actively monitor health state of Teams devices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to use the Teams monitoring and alerting capabilities in the Microsoft Teams admin center to pro-actively monitor the health state of Teams devices.
```

appliesto: 
  - Microsoft Teams
ms.custom: 
---
# Microsoft Teams device health monitoring

> The device health monitoring in the Microsoft Teams admin center gives you an ability to pro-actively monitor health of various Teams devices. With an ability to monitor 'offline' state of a device,  you can get alerted in real-time if the monitored device in your organization goes offline.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The device health monitoring in the Microsoft Teams admin center gives you an ability to pro-actively monitor the health of various Teams devices. With an ability to monitor the 'offline' state of a device,  you can get alerted in real-time if the monitored device in your organization goes offline.  
```

> > **Pre-requisite :**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Prerequisite :**
```

> > An admin who is configuring this rule should have a Team/channel creation permissions in his tenant. [Learn More](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/solutions/manage-creation-of-groups?view=o365-worldwide)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> An admin who is configuring this rule should have Teams/channel creation permissions in his tenant. For more information, see [Manage who can create Microsoft 365 Groups
](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/solutions/manage-creation-of-groups?view=o365-worldwide).
```

## Configure device state rule

1. In the left navigation of the Microsoft Teams admin center, click **Notifications & alerts** > **Rules**. On the **Rules** Page, select **Device state rule**.

    ![Screenshot of the rules page in the Teams admin center with differnt out of box rules](../media/teams-alert-rules-page.png "Screenshot of the Teams alerting rules in the Teams admin center")
    

> 2. Once clicked, Device state rule needs to configure in detail before enabling it for alerts. Please follow below guide to interprete each section. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Once selected, the **Device state rule** needs to be configured in detail before enabling it for alerts. Please see the following guidance to interpret each section. 
```

---

> title: Microsoft Teams Devices Monitoring and Alerting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Microsoft Teams devices monitoring and alerting
```

author: cichur
ms.author: v-cichur
manager: serdars
audience: Admin
ms.topic: article
ms.service: msteams
ms.reviewer: vapati
f1.keywords:
- 
localization_priority: 
search.appverid: 
ms.collection: 
  - 
description: Learn how to use the Teams monitoring and alerting capabilities in the Microsoft Teams admin center to proactively monitor the health state of Teams devices
appliesto: 
  - Microsoft Teams
ms.custom: 
---
# Microsoft Teams device health monitoring

Device health monitoring in the Microsoft Teams admin center gives you an ability to proactively monitor the health of various Teams devices. With an ability to monitor the 'offline' state of a device,  you can get alerted in real-time if the monitored device in your organization goes offline.  

> **Prerequisite :**

> > An admin configuring this rule should have teams/channel creation permissions in his tenant. [Learn More](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/solutions/manage-creation-of-groups?view=o365-worldwide)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> An admin configuring this rule should have teams/channel creation permissions in his tenant. To learn more, see 
[Manage who can create Microsoft 365 Groups](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/solutions/manage-creation-of-groups?view=o365-worldwide).
```

## Configure device state rule

1. In the left navigation of the Microsoft Teams admin center, click **Notifications & alerts** > **Rules**. On the **Rules** Page, select **Device state rule**.

    ![Screenshot of the rules page in the Teams admin center with different out of the box rules.](../media/teams-alert-rules-page.png "Screenshot of the Teams alerting rules in the Teams admin center")
    
2. Once clicked, the device state rule needs to be configured in detail before enabling it for alerts. Please follow the below guide to interpret each section. 

    ![Screenshot of the Teams devices state rule in the Teams admin center.](../media/teams-device-health-state-alerts-with-callouts.png "Screenshot of the Device state rule in the Teams admin center.")

## Interpret the rule configuration
|Callout |Description  |
|--------|-------------|

> |**1**   |The device state rule helps you effectively manage Teams devices and is classified as a device management type. In the future, more rules of device management type will be available to monitor other related capabilities (examples may include: unhealthy device, Sign-in status of device).|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|**1**   |The device state rule helps you effectively manage Teams devices and is classified as a device management type. In the future, more rules of a device management type will be available to monitor other related capabilities (examples may include: unhealthy device, Sign-in status of device).|
```

> |**2**   |You can monitor the health of devices if they go offline. [Learn more](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/devices/device-management) about device management in Teams admin center. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|**2**   |You can monitor the health of devices if they go offline. To learn more about device management in the Teams admin center, see [Manage your devices in Microsoft Teams](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoftteams/devices/device-management) . |
```

> |**3**   |You can specify how frequently you want to monitor device health status by mentioning the rule evaluation frequency. By default teams devices will be monitored in near real-time if they go offline. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|**3**   |You can specify how frequently you want to monitor device health status by mentioning the rule evaluation frequency. By default, Teams devices will be monitored in near real-time if they go offline. |
```

> |**4**   |You can specify which devices needs proactive offline statue monitoring by selecting them based on signed-in users. Please refer to [Select devices for configuration](#Select-devices-for-configuration) for more details. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|**4**   |You can specify which devices need proactive offline statue monitoring by selecting them based on signed-in users. Please refer to [Select devices for configuration](#Select-devices-for-configuration) for more details. |
```

> |**5**   |In the Actions section, you can specify teams channels you want to get alerts for. Currently, a default team named **'Admin Alerts and Notifications'** and channel named **'MonitoringAlerts'** will be created where notifications will be delivered to. <BR/> <BR/> Global administrators and Teams administrators in your tenant will be automatically added to this default team.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|**5**   |In the **Actions** section, you can specify Teams channels you want to get alerts for. Currently, a default team named **Admin Alerts and Notifications** and a channel named **MonitoringAlerts** will be created where notifications will be delivered to. <BR/> <BR/> Global administrators and Teams administrators in your tenant will be automatically added to this default team.|
```

 

## Select devices for configuration

> 1. You can select Teams devices you want to monitor by selecting users signed in to those devices. Click on **Add** in **Device users** section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. You can select Teams devices you want to monitor by selecting users signed in to those devices. Click on **Add** in the **Device users** section.
```

    ![Screenshot of the add user in device health status rule.](../media/add-users-device-state-rule.png "Screenshot of the add users in device status rule.")

> 2. Select one or more users for which you want to monitor device health state 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select one or more users for which you want to monitor the device health state.
```

    ![Screenshot of the add user in device health status rule.](../media/add-users-in-device-rule.png "Screenshot of the add users in device status rule.")

    ![Screenshot of the add user in device health status rule.](../media/add-users-in-device-rule-2.png "Screenshot of the add users in device status rule.")

> 3. Selected list of users will be shows in **Device users** section. You can modify this list by adding or removing users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The selected list of users will be shown in the **Device users** section. You can modify this list by adding or removing users.
```

    ![Screenshot of the add user in device health status rule.](../media/added-users-in-device-rule.png "Screenshot of the add users in device status rule.")

4. All the sign-in devices used by the selected list of users will be monitored for the offline health state.

## Notifications in Teams client

The notifications will be delivered in the auto-created **MonitoringAlerts** channel of the **Admin Alerts and Notifications** Team.

> Sample device offline notifications : 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sample device offline notifications: 
```

    
   ![Screenshot of the device offline alert in Teams client.](../media/device-offline-alert-with-callouts.png "Screenshot of the device offline alert in MonitoringAlerts channel in Teams.")

## Interpret the device offline notifications 
|Callout |Description  |
|--------|-------------|
|**1**   |The device name that's offline. |
|**2**   |The user of the offline device. |

> |**3**   |What time the device went offline. (Currently, the time is presented in UTC) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|**3**   |What time the device went offline. (Currently, the time is presented in UTC.) |
```
